Cosmopedia-100k Dataset
=======================

This folder contains scripts compatible with the cosmopedia-100k dataset.

Introduction
------------
Cosmopedia-100k is a smaller subset of the Cosmopedia dataset, which is a synthetic dataset of textbooks, blogposts, stories, posts, and WikiHow articles generated by Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1. This dataset aims to map world knowledge present in Web datasets like RefinedWeb and RedPajama, generating synthetic content that covers a wide range of topics. Cosmopedia-100k offers a more manageable size for researchers and enthusiasts to explore the capabilities of synthetic data.

Downloading the Dataset
-----------------------
To download the Cosmopedia-100k dataset, you can use the provided `get_dataset.py` script. This script automates the process of scraping and converting Parquet files from a specified URL to JSON and saves its contents to a text file.

Here's how to use the script:

```bash
python get_dataset.py --url https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceTB/cosmopedia-100k/tree/main/data -o output_text_file.txt
```

Replace `output_text_file.txt` with the path where you want the dataset's text content to be saved.

Dataset Structure
-----------------
The dataset contains the following features:

- `prompt`: The prompt used to generate the content with Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1.
- `text`: The synthetic generated content.
- `seed_data`: The name of the dataset or external source used in the prompt.
- `token_length`: The number of tokens in the text, computed using Mistral-7B's tokenizer.
- `format`: The style of text, which can be a textbook, a blogpost, a story, etc.
- `audience`: The target audience defined in the prompt.

The dataset is divided into 8 splits depending on the source of the seed data used. It covers a variety of styles and audiences, enhancing the diversity of the content.

Citation
--------
If you use the Cosmopedia-100k dataset in your research, please cite the following:

```bibtex
@software{benallal2024cosmopedia,
  author = {Ben Allal, Loubna and Lozhkov, Anton and Penedo, Guilherme and Wolf, Thomas and von Werra, Leandro},
  title = {Cosmopedia-100k},
  month = February,
  year = 2024,
  url = {https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceTB/cosmopedia-100k}
}
```

